docs/homepage.md, before:

# SuperCamo

SuperCamo is a Camo-inspired object data modeller (ODM) for NeDB, built specifically for BigfootDS' needs.

# Warning!

This is not recommended for production usage as of 20th June 2024.

This package is in active development, we are breaking things on almost every release.

## The URLs

- [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@bigfootds/supercamo)
- [GitHub repository](https://github.com/BigfootDS/supercamo)
- [Documentation website](https://bigfootds.github.io/supercamo/)

## Where To Start

Please have a look at the Tutorials!

This package is made to facilitate the use of a local, embedded NoSQL database called "NeDB". So it still has Documents and Subdocuments/EmbeddedDocuments at its core - but there are some other nice things introduced in this package that do impact the usage of those features and functionalities.

## Example Projects

Dig through these to see what else can be done with this library, and learn about how it's used in specific types of projects:

- [NodeJS terminal app](https://github.com/BigfootDS/supercamo-example-basic)
- ExpressJS server - NOT YET IMPLEMENTED
- ElectronJS app - NOT YET IMPLEMENTED

Those repositories are also used to dogfood this library - features needed for those projects will be prioritised. Check their readme files to see what is mapped out on each repository.

Commit message:

switch to typedoc for docs website

docs/homepage.md, after:

# SuperCamo

SuperCamo is a Camo-inspired object data modeller (ODM) for NeDB, built specifically for BigfootDS' needs.

# Warning!

This is not recommended for production usage as of 20th June 2024.

This package is in active development, we are breaking things on almost every release.

## The URLs

- [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@bigfootds/supercamo)
- [GitHub repository](https://github.com/BigfootDS/supercamo)
- [Documentation website](https://bigfootds.github.io/supercamo/)

## Where To Start

Please have a look at the Guides section of the documentation website!

This package is made to facilitate the use of a local, embedded NoSQL database called "NeDB". So it still has Documents and Subdocuments/EmbeddedDocuments at its core - but there are some other nice things introduced in this package that do impact the usage of those features and functionalities.

The documentation website contains really handy resources:

- [Quick Start](./documents/Quick_Start.html)
- [Package Concept Walkthroughs](./documents/The_Basics.html)

## API Reference

Reference documentation for this package lives over here:

- [The "Reference" section of the documentation website](./modules/Classes.html)

## Example Projects

Dig through these to see what else can be done with this library, and learn about how it's used in specific types of projects:

- [NodeJS terminal app](https://github.com/BigfootDS/supercamo-example-basic)
- ExpressJS server - NOT YET IMPLEMENTED
- ElectronJS app - NOT YET IMPLEMENTED

Those repositories are also used to dogfood this library - features needed for those projects will be prioritised. Check their readme files to see what is mapped out on each repository.
